## Background

- Seafood is one of the most widely traded commodities in the global food market. More than a third of the world’s population relies on fish and other seafood as a primary source of protein in their diet, and an estimated 520 million people make their livelihoods through fishing or fishingrelated activities.
- Unfortunately, illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing is a major contributor to overfishing worldwide. These activities pose a threat not only to fragile marine ecosystems, but also to food security in coastal communities and regional stability more broadly. The illegal fishing trade has been linked to organized crime, and human rights violations are common when fishing operations are conducted without regulatory oversight.

## **Mini Challenge I**

### Contextualize Data

- Analysts at FishEye International are committed to stopping illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing and protecting marine species that are affected by it.
- As part of their work, FishEye collects online news articles about fishing, marine industry, and international maritime trade.
- To facilitate their analysis, FishEye uses a natural language processing tool to extract the names of entities (people and businesses) and the relationships between them.
- Can you help them make sense of the extracted data?

1. Use visual analytics to dynamically display and explore context around the suspected entities listed above. What did you learn about each one? Can you connect them to illegal fishing? Provide evidence for or against the case that each entity is involved in illegal fishing and use visual analytics to express confidence in your conclusions. Limit your response to 600 words and 6 images.
2. Use your visual analytics tool to compare and contrast what you learned about the suspect entities. Are there patterns that may indicate illegal activity? Use visual analytics to express confidence that a pattern exists and where uncertainty may be affecting this confidence. Limit your response to 400 words and 4 images.
3. What other companies should FishEye investigate for illegal fishing? Show how your visual analytics can be used to find entities that are worthy of further investigation. Limit your response to 600 words and 6 images.
4. Reflection: What was the most difficult aspect of working with this knowledge graph? Did you have the tools and resources you needed to complete the challenge? What additional resources would have helped you? Limit your response to 300 words

### Mini Challenge II

- The country of Oceanus has sought FishEye International’s help in identifying companies possibly engaged in illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing. As part of the collaboration, FishEye’s analysts received import/export data for Oceanus’ marine and fishing industries. However, Oceanus has informed FishEye that the data is incomplete.
- To facilitate their analysis, FishEye transformed the trade data into a knowledge graph. Using this knowledge graph, they hope to understand business relationships, including finding links that will help them stop IUU fishing and protect marine species that are affected by it. FishEye analysts found that node-link diagrams gave them a good high-level overview of the knowledge graph. However, they are now looking for visualizations that provide more detail about patterns for entities in the knowledge graph.
- First, FishEye knows from past experience that companies caught fishing illegally will shut down but will then often start up again under a different name.
- Second, FishEye has been using several tools, including artificial intelligence, to reason on the knowledge graph and suggest links that could extend the dataset. Mini Challenge II

1. Use visual analytics to identify temporal patterns for individual entities and between entities in the knowledge graph FishEye created from trade records. Categorize the types of business relationship patterns you find. Limit your response to 600 words and 6 images.
2. Evaluate the sets of predicted knowledge graph links FishEye has provided using visual analytics. Which sets are most reliable for completing the graph? Limit your response to 600 words and 6 images.
3. Illustrate how your visual analytics approach can be used to identify new patterns and/or anomalies that are present in the knowledge graph after you have added the links you deemed reliable in question 2. Limit your response to 300 words and 4 images.
4. Identify companies that fit a pattern of illegal fishing. Use visualizations to support your conclusions and your confidence in them. Limit your response to 300 words and 4 images.
5. Reflection: What was the most difficult aspect of working with this knowledge graph? Did you have the tools and resources you needed to complete the challenge? What additional resources would have helped you? Limit your response to 300 words

### Mini Challenge III

FishEye International, a non-profit focused on countering illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing, has been given access to an international finance corporation’s database on fishing related companies. In the past, FishEye has determined that companies with anomalous structures are far more likely to be involved in IUU (or other “fishy” business). FishEye has transformed the database into a knowledge graph. It includes information about companies, owners, workers, and financial status. FishEye is aiming to use this graph to identify anomalies that could indicate a company is involved in IUU. FishEye analysts have attempted to use traditional node-link visualizations and standard graph analyses, but these were found to be ineffective because the scale and detail in the data can obscure a business’s true structure. Can you help FishEye develop a new visual analytics approach to better understand fishing business anomalies? Mini Challenge III

1. Use visual analytics to identify anomalies in the business groups present in the knowledge graph. Limit your response to 400 words and 5 images.
2. Develop a visual analytics process to find similar businesses and group them. This analysis should focus on a business’s most important features and present those features clearly to the user. Limit your response to 400 words and 5 images.
3. Measure similarity of businesses that you group in the previous question. Express confidence in your groupings visually. Limit your response to 400 words and 4 images.
4. Based on your visualizations, provide evidence for or against the case that anomalous companies are involved in illegal fishing. Which business groups should FishEye investigate further? Limit your response to 600 words and 6 images.
5. Reflection: What was the most difficult aspect of working with this knowledge graph? Did you have the tools and resources you needed to complete the challenge? What additional resources would have helped you? Limit your response to 300 words Grand Challenge FishEye International is committed to using all resources available to it to stop illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing. Each of the data sources available to FishEye that are outlined in Mini-challenges 1, 2, and 3 provide clues to identify companies that could be engaged in IUU fishing, but no single source provides a complete picture. Fuse the knowledge graph data from the three sources together to give Fisheye’s analysts a more comprehensive picture. Each data source may lead investigators to a different conclusion and FishEye is interested in using visual analytics to highlight conflicting narratives across datasets.

### Grand Challenge

1. Fuse data from the 3 mini-challenges together into a single knowledge graph. Create visualizations that highlight the extent to which data sources overlap and how each data source is connected to the others. Limit your responses to 300 words and 5 images.
2. The data from each source has limitations, which can result in an incomplete picture for most entities. Use visual analytics to quantify completeness of the knowledge graph and to highlight entities or networks that are important to the overall fishing network and would benefit from additional data. Limit your responses to 500 words and 8 images.
3. Use visual analytics to identify information presented in one data source that is in conflict with data in another source. Place special emphasis on the narratives that arise from networks of entities when completing your analysis. Limit your responses to 800 words and 10 images.
4. Identify a group of entities that you believe is involved in IUU fishing and use visualizations to present evidence of their behaviors. Limit your responses to 1000 words and 12 images.
5. Reflection: What was the most difficult aspect of working with this knowledge graph? Did you have the tools and resources you needed to complete the challenge? What additional resources would have helped you? Limit your response to 300 words