# VAST Challenge 2021

## Overview

Note: This scenario and all the people, places, groups, technologies, contained therein are fictitious. Any resemblance to real people, places, groups, or technologies is purely coincidental.

In the roughly twenty years that Tethys-based GAStech has been operating a natural gas production site in the island country of Kronos, it has produced remarkable profits and developed strong relationships with the government of Kronos. However, GAStech has not been as successful in demonstrating environmental stewardship.

In January, 2014, the leaders of GAStech are celebrating their new-found fortune as a result of the initial public offering of their very successful company. In the midst of this celebration, several employees of GAStech go missing. An organization known as the Protectors of Kronos (POK) is suspected in the disappearance, but things may not be what they seem.

As an expert in visual analytics, you are called in to help law enforcement from Kronos and Tethys.

## Mini-Challenge 1

Mini-Challenge 1 looks at the relationships and conditions that led up to the kidnapping. As an analyst, you have a set of current and historical news reports at your disposal, as well as resumes of numerous GAStech employees and email headers from two weeks of internal GAStech company email. Can you identify the complex relationships among all of these people and organizations?

Please visit [VAST Challenge 2021: Mini-Challenge 1](https://vast-challenge.github.io/2021/MC1.html) for more information and to download the data.

## Mini-Challenge 2

Mini-Challenge 2 asks you to analyze movement and tracking data. GAStech provides many of their employees with company cars for their personal and professional use, but unbeknownst to the employees, the cars are equipped with GPS tracking devices. You are given tracking data for the two weeks leading up to the disappearance, as well as credit card transactions and loyalty card usage data. From this data, can you identify anomalies and suspicious behaviors? Can you identify which people use which credit and loyalty cards?

Please visit [VAST Challenge 2021: Mini-Challenge 2](https://vast-challenge.github.io/2021/MC2.html) for more information and to download the data.

## Mini-Challenge 3

Mini-Challenge 3 poses a social media and text analysis challenge. You will be given a collection of microblogs and emergency calls from the days surrounding the disappearance. Can evaluate the changing levels of risk to the public and recommend actions?

Please visit [VAST Challenge 2021: Mini-Challenge 3](https://vast-challenge.github.io/2021/MC3.html) for more information and to download the data.